Alexandre Vives Lliset
Data Scientist
Phone: +1 (917) 257-4883 | Email: alexxvives@gmail.com | LinkedIn: alexandrevives
EDUCATION h
New York University, College of Arts & Science, New York City, NY GPA: 3.81 Graduated May 2023
Master of Science in Data Science
Purdue University, College of Engineering, West Lafayette, IN GPA: 3.64 Graduated May 2021
Bachelor of Science in Industrial Engineering, Emphasis Area in Operations Research
Minor in Business Management & Certificate in Applied Data Science
Stanford University, School of Engineering, Palo Alto, CA Jun-Aug 2019
Coursework: Principles and Techniques of Artificial Intelligence, Design of Algorithms, Programming Abstractions with C++
TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE h
Santander Bank, Boston, MA, United States Associate Data Scientist Jun 2023 - Present
➢ Built an automated workflow to deliver in-app messages to customers, leveraging customer data to enhance targeting and personalization.
➢ Designed, developed, and deployed a Customer Lifetime Value model used for targeted marketing campaigns and strategic internal analysis.
Meta (Facebook), New York, NY, United States Data Scientist Intern May-Aug 2022
➢ Implemented both linear and non-linear models using user data on the Instagram shopping tab to propose retargeting recommendations.
➢ Used SQL and Python to query the data and create clear visualizations to present to non-technical cross-functional stakeholders.
Hewlett-Packard, Boise, ID, United States Data Science Intern Jan-May 2021
➢ Forecasted the usage for each printer model using linear, non-linear (i.e. XGboost) and time series models (ARIMA variations)
➢ Built a dynamic dashboard accessible to anyone to easily retrieve the model's predictions for each printer model.
Research at Purdue University – Edward J. Delp Research Assistant Sep-Dec 2020
➢ Developed a detection model using a convolutional neural network to identify whether food was present in an image or not.
➢ Built a classification model using ResNet50 to classify the images that were previously detected as food into 101 food classes.
Research at Purdue University – Mario Ventresca Research Assistant May-Aug 2020
➢ Simulated the population in Tippecanoe County with R Studio using governmental data.
➢ Evaluated the spread of Covid-19 in that simulation as well as the effectiveness of several mitigation strategies.
LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE h
Scope Consulting, Purdue University Project Acquisition Director/Advisor Sep 2019-Present
➢ Founded, along with few other students, the consulting club Scope Consulting and reached 50 members in the first year.
➢ Met with businesses around our area to offer our consulting services and obtain projects for our members.
ADDITIONAL EXPERIENCE h
SEAT - Volkswagen Group, Barcelona, Spain Product Manager intern May-Aug 2021
➢ Worked along with Ana Moreno, the Product Manager of the Cupra Tavascan prototype.
➢ Responsible for leading the routine meetings, write down the meeting minutes and keep track of all the requests that each department demanded.
AWARDS & CERTIFICATIONS h
HackGPT, Hackathon using Large Language Models Finalist 2023
Deloitte, Undergraduate Case Competition 1
st Place Award 2021
Laser Pulse Hackathon, Visualizing Venezuela's Migration Crisis in Colombia 3
rd Place Award 2020
Stanford University, Machine Learning Coursera Course 2020
Udemy, Python for Data Science and Machine Learning Bootcamp Udemy Course 2020
Udemy, Python Bootcamp from Zero to Hero in Python Udemy Course 2019
Harvard, Data Science with R edX Course 2019
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Computational Thinking & Modeling Simulation edX Course 2018
Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Fall 2019
3x Dean's List at Purdue University- Cumulative GPA above 3.5/4.0
5x Semester Honors at Purdue University - Semester GPA above 3.5/4.0

OTHER DETAILS h
Languages: English (Proficiency), Spanish (Native), Catalan (Native), French (Conversational)
Programming languages: C++, MATLAB, R, Python, SQL, ARENA 